h1. Twitter plugin for CakePHP

This plugin allows you to post a new status on Twitter after a Model::save().
You can choose to automatically do that on create, on update, or both.

h2. 1. Installation

To install, run the following command from your app/plugins folder:

<pre><code>git clone git://github.com/kalt/twitter.git</code></pre>

The plugin includes the Twitter DataSource for CakePHP by Alex Ciobanu, added as a git submodule. You have to update it:

<pre><code>git submodule init
git submodule update</code></pre>

h2. 2. Setup

h3. 2.1. Twitter account credentials

Duplicate the following file:

<pre><code>twitter/config/twitter.default</code></pre>

and rename it to 'twitter.php'. Now open it and replace the username and password with yours.

h3. 2.2. Attach to Model

The plugin includes a Behavior that can be attached to any Model. The only configuration needed is when do you want to post a status on Twitter : on create, on update, or both.

<pre><code>class Post extends AppModel
{
	var $actsAs = array('Twitter.Twitterable' => array(
		'on' => 'create'
	));
}</code></pre>

In this example, everytime a Post is created, a new status will be posted on your Twitter account.

h3. 2.3. Create a <code>Model::twitterStatus()</code> method

The Twitterable Behavior will look for a twitterStatus() method in your model. This method just have to return the status you want to post. Keep in mind that a status on Twitter is limited to 140 characters.

We included a convenient method to format a status, twitterFormatStatus(). This method takes 3 arguments:

* <code>$message</code>: required text of the status ;
* <code>$url</code>: optionnal url, to the full post for example. Will be shortened (we choose http://is.gd) ;
* <code>$ending</code>: optionnal ending string if the status is too long. Defaults to '...'.

*Full example:*

<pre><code>class Post extends AppModel
{
	var $actsAs = array('Twitter.Twitterable' => array(
		'on' => 'create'
	));
	
	function twitterStatus()
	{
		$title = $this->data['Post']['title'];
		$url   = Router::url(array('controller' => 'posts', 'action' => 'view', $this->id), true);
		
		return $this->twitterFormatStatus($title, $url, '...');
	}
}</code></pre>

The status will be the post's title followed by a space and the url in a shortened format.